And then when this email joins or in this
email when this user joins,with that
email they'll have a user record created.
And one of the things I could do
is say hey welcome to the system.
Let me look to see if you have any
collaborator requests that are sitting
around.
And let me just add you
as a rule to all of this.
This is something you could
also do on the client.
But it's also a nice,
actually that you couldn't do it on
the client because of the security model.
But there are certain ways where sometimes
you can add things on the client to
bootstrap up their data set.
And other ways to write this query,
I can use a collection group query.
Because I can assume that all
budgets are going to have
a sub-collection of collaboratorRequests.
So by writing a collection group query,
I'll look across all budgets and say
how many budgets have invited you probably
anywhere between one to three max.
But that way I can structure
my data nested like that and
then still search across all of them.
So to write a collection group query,
I'll write a groupQuery.
And that's firestore.collectionGroup.
And that is, I'm just gonna copy of it and
because I type out everything
collaboratorRequests.
And then from here, I want to do
collaboratorRequests.where and
I can say the uid, my goodness.
Write that down here where
the uid is equal to the new is,
my gosh, is equal to the new users uid,
which we're getting back
here on the create.
So that gets all of
the collaboratorRequests.
So let's get those const snapshots,
groupQuery.get and
we're basically gonna do the same
thing as we're doing here.
We are going to add them, but
we're gonna do that in a loop.
So we're gonna say snapshots.
We could do this in a batch as well.
So const batch is firestore.batch and
then now for snapshots.docs.
I need to await it thank you VS code.
.docs.map.
And for here,
I need to know what budget I meant.
So the way this works is is
this is a document reference.
And so each document reference
this is at the document level
of collaboratorRequests because
we are here doing queries for
collaborator extra as my query for
collaboratorRequests.
So I know that the parent of
collaboratorRequests is the budget ID.
So I wanna kinda get the parent
document right here.
So I can say budgetDoc is d.ref.parent.
And so
now I know I'm at the budget level and
then from there I can
say the collaborate or
call or I can use a collaborator Doc is
budgetDoc.doc of the user's uid.
So user records user that uid now,
which is just this right here,
once again, it's going to be user.uid.
And then from here I can
just say collaborator.
I say batch.set of the collaboratorDoc and
then set the role to collaborator.
And then instead of returning this one,
I'll return a whole batch
return batch.commit.
So basically what's going on here
is I'm getting all of the potential
collaboratorRequests across all sub
collections where their uid is equals to
the new user.
I'm going to run that query,
create a batch loop through
all of the query results,
get a reference out to that collaborators
sub-collection underneath the budget.
And then set it within the batch and
then return it as batch.commit.
So let's save and let's create a user.
All right, so let's go into
authentication, let's add a user,
let's set this as Darla East, my dog's
name is Darla, for what it's worth.
So, while I'm thinking up of
things to use for demo data,
I just look at the furry
creature on the ground.
And then I'm like that's what I'm doing.
Darla@example.com and password
1234Firebase and let's save fresh.
We have Darla right here.
I made a mistake.
I'll have to do this again.
I did not add the user to
the collaboratorRequests.
All right, so we'll do another so
darla.again@example.com.
So now we gonna wait for
this user to be created.
And I can copy that right here,
then we can go into authentication,
clear that,
add a user Darla again Darla@again.com,
1234Firebase.
Save, all right, so
let's go out to FireStore,
collaboratorRequests that's their,
see, won't see anything yet
it should be there some probably,
yes there is what the old one, okay?
So it says users created, so it
triggered it, so I did something, right?
One of the mistakes I made was that I
said, where uid is equal to user.uid
that's not, we have to talk where
email is equal to user.email.
I was thinking in uids and
I couldn't get past that.
So this will pull back the collection.
This will go through and
get those snapshots, we'll create a batch.
Loop through each snapshot,
go through and get the .parent.
So we can create collaborators so
we can get to the budget,
go to its collaborators and
then get the doc of the new user's uid.
And then from there, we can set that
roll of collaborator in the batch.
So now, let's go and
then return that shot commit
because functions need your
promise to be returned.
Now, save and let's trigger it.
All right, so let's go through we
have a collaborator across for
darla.again@example.com.
So I'm gonna copy that, authentication
I'm gonna delete the user so
we can trigger it one more time.
So Darla, again and that's
darla.again@example.com, 1234Firebase.
Now, when I save we have a new user.
If I go into Firestore, go to good budget,
go to collaborators,
we have the two now have a new one.
For each one,
you can see that our logs were good.
So that is a lot of power
at your fingertips with
Firestore versus with Cloud Functions.
And one of the things
to that you can do with
Cloud Functions is are we
did an onCreate off trigger.
You can do an onDelete off trigger where
you can clean up anything that's going on.
But also something that I'm
not gonna cover today but
I just wanna talk about because it's
super cool is there's like a new type
of function called before create and
before sign in.
And these are blocking functions.
So the way that these
work these are v2 only.
But when a user goes to create an account,
you can block on that account creation and
you can say, hey,
I'm now only gonna allow this user,
if their email is a part
of my company's domain.
Or if they belong to a GitHub
repository that I can check in the API.
So you can do a lot of
custom checks in here.
And the same thing with before signing
every time before user signs in,
you can do some custom
checking there as well.
And so the token will not be issued
until that sign in function returns.
So it's a really nice way of doing
a lot of complex custom logic.